---
id: 1735004366-DUPM
aliases:
  - Cloud Native
tags:
  - terms
  - terms_cloud_native
---


<center>
<h1>Term: Cloud Native</h1>
</center>


##### Table of Contents
- [Azure Cloud Service](#azure)


---
# azure
---

##### Use:
- Build scalable, fault-tolerant applications.
- Leverage Azure's services like AKS, Cosmos DB, and Logic Apps.
- Simplify deployments with serverless computing (Azure Functions).

##### Example:
A cloud-native web application using:
- **Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)** to host containers.
- **Azure Cosmos DB** for globally distributed database storage.
- **Azure Functions** to process background tasks serverlessly.

##### Short Description:
Cloud-native in Azure refers to applications built to leverage Azure's cloud
services for scalability, resilience, and efficient management.

##### Lamens Terms:
Cloud-native means apps made to run smoothly in the cloud, using tools like
storage or servers that the cloud provides. They are easy to grow, fix,
and manage.

##### Long Description:
Cloud-native applications in Azure are designed to take full advantage of
Azure's cloud platform by using services like Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS),
Azure App Service, and Azure Functions. These applications are built using
modern architectures, such as microservices and containers, and rely on
Azure-managed services for scalability, resilience, and easy deployment. The
goal is to create flexible, scalable, and fault-tolerant applications tailored
for the cloud environment.



