---
id: 1737136127-CHGZ
aliases:
  - Typescript main
  - Typescript Getting Started
tags:
  - typescript
  - typescript_main
---

<center>
<h1>Typescript Main</h1>
</center>


### Feature Description
TypeScript is a programming language that extends JavaScript by adding static
types. It helps developers catch errors during development and improves code
maintainability.

### Use Case
- Building large-scale web applications.
- Creating reusable and scalable codebases.
- Enhancing developer collaboration with better type definitions.
- Ensuring type safety when working with APIs or external libraries.
- Debugging and catching errors during development.
- Improving IDE support with autocompletion and type hints.

### Table of Contents
[Javascript: Main](javascript/1737182842-QUCA.md)
[Classes](javascript/typescript/1737140729-TRGA.md)
[Interfaces](javascript/typescript/1737487973-RTUV.md)
Types / Static Type
Decorators
Generics
Enums
Tooling


<center>
  <hr>
  <h2>Installation</h2>
  <hr>
</center>

1. **Step 1**: Install Node.js  
   - TypeScript requires Node.js to be installed. Download and install the
     latest version of Node.js from [nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org/).

2. **Step 2**: Install TypeScript globally  
   - Open your terminal or command prompt and run the following command to install TypeScript globally:
     ```bash
     npm install -g typescript
     ```

3. **Step 3**: Verify the installation  
   - Check if TypeScript was installed successfully by running:
     ```bash
     tsc --version
     ```
   - This will display the installed TypeScript version.

4. **Step 4**: Initialize TypeScript in your project  
   - Navigate to your project folder in the terminal and run:
     ```bash
     tsc --init
     ```
   - This creates a `tsconfig.json` file to configure TypeScript for your project.

5. **Step 5**: Write TypeScript code  
   - Create a `.ts` file in your project directory, for example:
     ```bash
     touch example.ts
     ```

6. **Step 6**: Compile TypeScript to JavaScript  
   - Use the `tsc` command to compile your `.ts` file into a `.js` file:
     ```bash
     tsc example.ts
     ```
   - The compiled JavaScript file will appear in your directory.

7. **Step 7**: Run the compiled JavaScript  
   - Run the generated `.js` file using Node.js:
     ```bash
     node example.js
     ```
     ```


<center>
  <hr>
  <h2></h2>
  <hr>
</center>
📌 Add other information Here

