---
id: 1737182842-QUCA
aliases:
  - "Javascript: Main"
tags:
  - javascript
  - javascript_main
---

<center>
<h1>Javascript: Main</h1>
</center>


### Feature Description
JavaScript is a versatile, high-level programming language primarily used for creating dynamic and interactive web applications.

### Use Case
- Enhance web pages with interactive elements.
- Develop full-stack applications using frameworks like Node.js.
- Build mobile and desktop applications with tools like React Native or Electron.

### Table of Contents

**Overvie:w**
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage Examples](#usage-examples)
- [Typescript main](javascript/typescript/1737136127-CHGZ.md)     // typescript

**Features:**
- Dynamic Typing
- Event-Driven Programming
- Prototype-Based Inheritance
- First-Class Functions
- Closures
- - [Async and Await](javascript/1733859340-QJBE.md)
- DOM Manipulation
- Built-In Objects
- Modules
- Event Loop
- Error Handling
- Template Literals
- Arrow Functions
- Destructuring
- Spread and Rest Operators
- Interoperability
- Regular Expressions
- WeakMap and WeakSet
- JSON Support
- The `this` keyword

**Post ES6 Features**
let and const
Template Literals
Arrow Functions
Modules (import/export)
- [Promises](javascript/1733849378-OIAX.md)
Default Parameters
Destructuring
Spread and Rest Operators
Iterators and Generators
for...of Loop
Map and Set
Symbol
Block Scoping
Enhanced Object Literals



### Quirks of Javascript

**Variables and Scope**
variables automatically scope to the function, unless you use ES6 let and const
which are block scoped

<center>
  <hr>
  <h2 id="installation">Installation</h2>
  <hr>
</center>

1. **Step 1**: Install Node.js to run JavaScript outside the browser.
   - Download from the official Node.js website: https://nodejs.org
   - Verify installation:
     ```bash
     node -v
     npm -v
     ```

2. **Step 2**: Set up a text editor or IDE.
   - Use editors like Visual Studio Code for efficient development.

3. **Step 3**: Create your first JavaScript file.
   - Example:
     ```bash
     echo "console.log('Hello, World!');" > app.js
     node app.js
     ```

4. **Step 4**: Add JavaScript to a web page.
   - Example:
     ```html
     <script>
       console.log("Hello, World!");
     </script>
     ```



