---
id: 1734997349-YXXC
aliases:
  - Understanding Deployment Groups
tags:
  - azure
  - azure_devops_deployment
  - azure_devops_deployment_groups
---

<center>
<h1>Understanding Deployment Groups</h1>
</center>


##### __Feature Description__
Deployment groups in Azure DevOps represent a collection of target machines
(VMs or physical servers) used for deploying applications.

##### Lamens Description
You use deployment groups to combine different Azure Agents (servers) so you
can control the environemnts you will deploy to


##### Use Case
Organize and manage deployment targets for application delivery, especially in
multi-server or on-prem environments.

##### Example of When to Use
Imagine you have a web application that needs to be deployed across multiple
on-premises servers or Azure Virtual Machines. These servers host your app,
and you want to manage and automate deployments to all of them simultaneously.

    Scenario:
      You have 10 VMs (Windows or Linux) running your app in different 
      locations. Instead of manually deploying to each one, you set up a 
      Deployment Group in Azure DevOps.

How It Works:

Install a deployment agent on each server to connect it to the deployment group.
Azure DevOps pipelines deploy your app to all servers in the group automatically.
Use Case:

Deploy a web app to all 10 VMs during an update.
Centralize deployment logs and management in Azure DevOps.
Deployment groups are ideal for multi-server, on-premises, or hybrid deployments.



---
#### Setting up Cloud Native Deployment Group
---
note: By default `classic release pipelines` are disabled, and now we use yaml
based pipelines

If you want to use classic build pipelines, you have to enable it from project/
organizational settings
